Adding SwiftUI concepts and examples to iOS getting started doc (#7736)
flutter/website: src/get-started/flutter-for/ios-devs.md

<nav class="navbar bg-primary">
 <ul class="navbar-nav navbar-code ml-auto">
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.dartpad}}/?id=66e6728e204021e3b9e0190be50d014b">Test in DartPad</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.repo.this}}/{{sample_path}}/lib/list.dart">View on GitHub</a>
  </li>
</ul>
</nav>

<?code-excerpt "lib/list.dart (SimpleList)"?>
```dart
class Person {
  String name;
  Person(this.name);
}

var items = [
  Person('Person 1'),
  Person('Person 2'),
  Person('Person 3'),
];

class HomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  const HomePage({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      body: ListView.builder(
        itemCount: items.length,
        itemBuilder: (context, index) {
          return ListTile(
            title: Text(items[index].name),
          );
        },
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

Flutter has some caveats for lists:

- The [`ListView`] widget has a builder method.
This works like the `ForEach` within SwiftUI's `List` struct.

- The `itemCount` parameter of the `ListView` sets how many items
that the `ListView` displays.

> - The `.builder` method calls the `itemBuilder` widget with bounds.

Author: I don't really understand this part

  - Set the lower bound to any positive number including 0.
  - Set the upper bound to any positive number excluding the item count.
  - This widget must return one `Widget` instance per list item.

The previous example returned a [`ListTile`][] widget for each item.
The `ListTile` widget includes properties like `height` and `font-size`.

> These properties help build a list. Flutter allows you to return

Author: Adding "However" to make it clear that even though ListTile is useful for widgets, you still can use other widgets. That point wasn't clear to me without this word

<?code-excerpt path-base="get-started/flutter-for/ios_devs"?>

{% assign sample_path = "get-started/flutter-for/ios_devs" %}

This document is for iOS developers looking to apply
their existing iOS knowledge to build mobile apps with Flutter.
If you understand the fundamentals of the iOS framework
then you can use this document as a
way to get started learning Flutter development.

{{site.alert.note}}
  To integrate Flutter code into your **existing** iOS app, see
  [Add Flutter to existing app][].
{{site.alert.end}}

<!-- Add this blurb once published -->
<!-- Flutter is a framework for building cross-platform applications
that uses the Dart programming language. 
To understand some differences between programming with Dart
and programming with Swift, see [Learning Dart as a Swift Developer][] 
and [Comparing Dart Concurrency with Swift][]. -->

Your iOS knowledge and skill set

> are highly valuable when building with Flutter, 

Reviewer: I'd delete this line. All it does is add a trailing space.

Author: Will do

because Flutter relies on the mobile operating system
for numerous capabilities and configurations.
Flutter is a new way to build UIs for mobile,
but it has a plugin system to communicate
with iOS (and Android) for non-UI tasks.
<!-- Add this sentence once published -->

> <!-- Learn more at [iOS and Apple hardware interactions with Flutter][] -->

Reviewer: Is this another new page?

Author: Yes I will be adding another PR for this one

Flutter also already makes a number of adaptations
in the framework for you when running on iOS.
For a list, see [Platform adaptations][].

This document can be used as a cookbook by jumping around
and finding questions that are most relevant to your needs.
Pieces of sample code are embedded within this document, 

> but the full working examples can be tested on DartPad or viewed on Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but the full working examples can be tested on DartPad or viewed on GitHub.
```

<!-- Embed intro to iOS video when published -->

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="editor-setup" role="tablist">
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link active" id="swiftui-tab" href="#swiftui" role="tab" aria-controls="swiftui" aria-selected="true">SwiftUI</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" id="uikit-tab" href="#uikit" role="tab" aria-controls="uikit" aria-selected="false">UIKit</a>
  </li>
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="swiftui" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="swiftui-tab" markdown="1">

## SwiftUI Overview

> 

Reviewer: Since you are deleting previous text, you need to add some new text here. You should have text between two headers.

Author: Okay I added a quick sentence to say what the section will discuss

1. The parent lays out the child, respecting the size that the child requested.

Flutter follows a similar process, with a few notable differences:

1. The parent widget passes constraints down to its children 
(maximum height and width, and minimum height and width). 
1. The child attempts to decide its size 
by going through this same process with its own list of children. 
It tells its child what its constraints are, 
and asks it what size it wishes to be. 
1. The parent lays out the child, ensuring that it’s within the original constraints.

The main differences are that in Flutter the size can be asserted by 
the parent widget, and overrule the child’s desired size. 
Parents can force a child to be a specific size by using tight 
constraints where the minimum height is equal to the maximum height, 
or the minimum width is equal to the maximum width.

In SwiftUI, views can choose to expand to the space that the parent 
has said is available, or choose to be the size of its content. 
Flutter widgets behave similarly. 
However, parents can offer unbounded constraints, where one or both 
of the maximum values is infinity. 
In these cases, if the child is expanding, 

> you will get an overflow warning, as shown below:

Reviewer: The next line is Dart code. I don't see the overflow warning.

Author: I was referring to the screenshot below it

Author: I am referring to the screenshot below the code (showing the output of the code)

  Icon(CupertinoIcons.arrow_down_square),
  Icon(CupertinoIcons.arrow_up_square),
];

class HomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  const HomePage({Key? key}) : super(key: key);

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      body: GridView.builder(
        gridDelegate: const SliverGridDelegateWithFixedCrossAxisCount(
          crossAxisCount: 3,
          mainAxisExtent: 40.0,
        ),
        itemCount: widgets.length,
        itemBuilder: (context, index) => widgets[index],
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

The `SliverGridDelegateWithFixedCrossAxisCount` 
delegate determines various parameters that the grid  
uses to lay out its components, 
such as `crossAxisCount`, which is the number of items 
per row that is displayed horizontally, and `mainAxisExtent`, 
which dictates the number of pixels each row must have.

One distinction between SwiftUI's `Grid` and Flutter's `GridView` 
is that in SwiftUI the `Grid` is fed with instances of `GridRow`, 
but in Flutter `GridView` uses the delegate to decide 
how the grid should lay out its components.

### Creating a scroll view

In SwiftUI, to create custom scrolling components, 
you would use `ScrollView`. 

> For example, to display a series of `PersonView` 
>  instances on the screen in a vertically scrollable fashion. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example displays a series of `PersonView` 
instances on the screen in a vertically scrollable fashion:
```

```swift
ScrollView {
  VStack(alignment: .leading) {
    ForEach(persons) { person in
      PersonView(person: person)
    }
  }
}
```

The closest equivalent of `ScrollView` in Flutter is 
[`SingleChildScrollView`][]. 
In the following example, the function `mockPerson` mocks up instances 

> 'of the defined `Person` class to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the defined `Person` class to 
```

> create the custom `PersonView` widget. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create the custom `PersonView` widget:
```

<nav class="navbar bg-primary">
 <ul class="navbar-nav navbar-code ml-auto">
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.dartpad}}/?id=63039c5371995ae53d971d613a936f7b">Test in DartPad</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.repo.this}}/{{sample_path}}/lib/scroll.dart">View on Github</a>
  </li>
</ul>
</nav>

<?code-excerpt "lib/scroll.dart (ScrollExample)"?>
```dart
    SingleChildScrollView(
  child: Column(
    children: mockPersons
        .map(
          (person) => PersonView(
            person: person,
          ),
        )
        .toList(),
  ),
),
```

> ### Responsive & adaptive design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Responsive and adaptive design
```

<?code-excerpt path-base="get-started/flutter-for/ios_devs"?>

{% assign sample_path = "get-started/flutter-for/ios_devs" %}

This document is for iOS developers looking to apply
their existing iOS knowledge to build mobile apps with Flutter.
If you understand the fundamentals of the iOS framework
then you can use this document as a
way to get started learning Flutter development.

{{site.alert.note}}
  To integrate Flutter code into your **existing** iOS app, see
  [Add Flutter to existing app][].
{{site.alert.end}}

<!-- Add this blurb once published -->
<!-- Flutter is a framework for building cross-platform applications

> that uses the Dart programming language. 

Reviewer 2: nit: 'use'

Reviewer 2: Ah, ignore me - this is referring to 'Flutter', not 'the applications'. My bad!

Flutter also already makes a number of adaptations
in the framework for you when running on iOS.
For a list, see [Platform adaptations][].

This document can be used as a cookbook by jumping around
and finding questions that are most relevant to your needs.
Pieces of sample code are embedded within this document, 
but the full working examples can be tested on DartPad or viewed on Github.

<!-- Embed intro to iOS video when published -->

{% comment %} Nav tabs {% endcomment -%}
<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="editor-setup" role="tablist">
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link active" id="swiftui-tab" href="#swiftui" role="tab" aria-controls="swiftui" aria-selected="true">SwiftUI</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="nav-link" id="uikit-tab" href="#uikit" role="tab" aria-controls="uikit" aria-selected="false">UIKit</a>
  </li>
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="swiftui" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="swiftui-tab" markdown="1">

## SwiftUI Overview
This section gives an overview of the core similarities and differences between SwiftUI and Flutter.

> ### Views vs. widgets

Reviewer 2: 'Widgets' ? Since we're referring to it as a class type.

  </li>
</ul>

{% comment %} Tab panes {% endcomment -%}
<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="swiftui" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="swiftui-tab" markdown="1">

## SwiftUI Overview

This section gives an overview of the core similarities 
and differences between SwiftUI and Flutter.

### Views vs. Widgets

Flutter and SwiftUI are both declarative frameworks, 
meaning the code simply describes how the UI should look 
and what it should do. 

In SwiftUI, you use **_views_** 
to represent parts of your app's UI, 
and you can provide modifiers that are used to configure those views. 

<img src="/assets/images/docs/get-started/ios/swiftui-modifiers.png" alt="SwiftUI Text view uses a padding modifier">

Flutter is similar in that it uses **_widgets_** 
to represent parts of your app's UI. Both views and widgets are immutable, 
meaning they only exist until they need to be changed. 
Additionally, both SwiftUI and Flutter are designed to use composition 
rather than inheritance. However, Flutter uses individual widget classes 
for many aspects of the UI. This means that properties 
that might normally be represented as modifiers in SwiftUI 

> are instead represented as separate widgets in Flutter. 

Author: What is "relate classes"?

This doesn't make sense to me because you're saying they're the same and then you say in practice they're different

> are instead represented as separate widgets in Flutter. 

Reviewer 3: Ah, fair. The explanation I found says composition and inheritance both handle how classes relate to each other. Inheritance works as each subclass is a version of its parent class; composition works through referring to its parent class. Inheritance breaks when the parent class changes; composition doesn't.

> are instead represented as separate widgets in Flutter. 

Author: I wrote the following: 

```
Flutter represents UI components as _widgets_. 
Both views and widgets only exist until they need to be changed.
These languages call this property _immutability_.
Additionally, SwiftUI and Flutter are relate classes using composition, 
rather than inheritance. 
However, Flutter uses individual widget classes 
for many aspects of the UI. This means that properties 
that might normally be represented as modifiers in SwiftUI 
are instead represented as separate widgets in Flutter. 
```

<img src="/assets/images/docs/get-started/ios/flutter-widgets.png" alt="Flutter Text Widget is encapsulated by a Padding widget">

In both SwiftUI and Flutter, 
layouts are composed by nesting views or widgets, 

> respectively, within one another.

Reviewer 3: Oops! Should have been `UI components called views or widgets...`.

### Layout process

In SwiftUI, the layout process is composed of a few different steps:

1. The parent view proposes some size to the child view.
1. The child decides the size it requires by going through 
this same process with its own list of children. 
It passes down the proposed size and 
asks its child what size it wishes to be. 
It then returns the size it requires to its parent.

> 1. The parent lays out the child, respecting the size that the child requested.

Author: This feels more confusing to me

> 1. The parent lays out the child, respecting the size that the child requested.

Reviewer 3: Yeah... It was somewhat to me, too. After I read the Flutter version of steps, I think this could have been written similarly.

The distinctions for SwiftUI, if I read this correctly, are:

1. The top-level parent proposes a size to its child view.
2. All subsequent child views also propose a size to their child's view while asking that child what size it _wants_ to be.
3. Each child view returns a size both desired and allowed to its parent.
4. Each parent view renders the its child view at the returned size.
5. Steps 2-4 repeat until the top-level parent renders its child.

Does that read more clearly?

I know that Flutter only offers limits to its children while asking those children what size they want.

This means the main difference is that SwiftUI proposes a size while Flutter provides constraints.

Flutter follows a similar process, with a few notable differences:

1. The parent widget passes constraints down to its children 
(maximum height and width, and minimum height and width). 
1. The child attempts to decide its size 
by going through this same process with its own list of children. 
It tells its child what its constraints are, 
and asks it what size it wishes to be. 

> 1. The parent lays out the child, ensuring that it’s within the original constraints.

Author: This is missing some information, we no longer are asking what size the child wants to be

> 1. The parent lays out the child, ensuring that it’s within the original constraints.

Reviewer 3: I wasn't sure what the impact of asking was. It didn't appear that there was any in the original steps. Sure, the parent asks, but it doesn't seem like it matters: the constraint does. In other words, the child can always be less than the constraint, never more. If the child's request has more impact, then, yes, I was wrong to remove it, but then the last step should mention something about the child's size, like `Each parent lays out the child at the child's desired size, as long as that size falls within the parent's constraints.`

The main differences are that in Flutter the size can be asserted by 
the parent widget, and overrule the child’s desired size. 
Parents can force a child to be a specific size by using tight 
constraints where the minimum height is equal to the maximum height, 
or the minimum width is equal to the maximum width.

In SwiftUI, views can choose to expand to the space that the parent 
has said is available, or choose to be the size of its content. 
Flutter widgets behave similarly. 
However, parents can offer unbounded constraints, where one or both 
of the maximum values is infinity. 
In these cases, if the child is expanding, 

> you will get an overflow warning, as shown below:

Author: This is not the same, we are missing the different that Flutter offers

> you will get an overflow warning, as shown below:

Reviewer 3: The difference wasn't clear in the initial copy. Is the difference that only Flutter can have infinite maximums? That makes sense and should be corrected. Apologies if I missed this!

```dart
UnconstrainedBox(
  child: Container(color: red, width: 4000, height: 50),
)
```

<img src="/assets/images/docs/ui/layout/layout-14.png" alt="When parents pass unbounded constraints to children, and the children are expanding, then there is an overflow warning">

For more information on how constraints work in Flutter, 
see [Understanding constraints][]. 

### Design system

> Because Flutter is multi-platform, your app doesn’t need to conform to a stock design system. 
> While many examples in the Flutter documentation feature Material widgets, 
> which leverage the [Material Design guidelines][], you have a lot of options 
> for designing your Flutter app.  You can customize Material widgets, leverage 
> widgets built by the community, build your own widgets, 
> or use the [Cupertino widgets][] that follow Apple’s Human Interface Guidelines.

Reviewer 3: **suggestion:** Use active voice and tighten the language.
```suggestion
As Flutter targets multiple platforms, your app doesn’t need to conform to any design system. 
Though many examples in this documentation feature [Material][] widgets, your Flutter app can use many different design systems. Your app can use:

- Custom Material widgets
- Community built widgets
- Your own custom widgets
- [Cupertino widgets][] that follow Apple’s Human Interface Guidelines
```

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="{{site.youtube-site}}/embed/3PdUaidHc-E?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you're looking for a great reference app that features a custom design system, check out [Wonderous][].

## UI Basics

> This section covers how basic UI components in Flutter compare to those in SwiftUI. 
> This includes how to start your app, display static text, 
> create buttons, react to on-press events, display lists, grids, and more.

Reviewer 3: **suggestion:** Reduce some verbiage to get to the point faster.
```suggestion
This section compares basic UI components in Flutter and SwiftUI. 
This includes how to start your app, display static text, 
create buttons, react to on-press events, display lists, grids, and more.
```

Reviewer 3: **question:** How does starting your app count as a UI basic? I have no idea, so I didn't suggest a change. If you can clarify, you should.

Author: I dont understand what you mean by clarifying. I consider starting an app to be a basic principle of UI development

Reviewer 3: I guess I mean why starting an app is UI development. Is it displaying the home screen? That "sounds like" UI, as opposed to double-clicking the app icon. I know that may be a fine point, but tech writing can be about the fine points.

Author: I changed to :

```
This section covers the basics of UI development in 
Flutter and how it compares to SwiftUI. 
This includes how to start developing your app, display static text, 
create buttons, react to on-press events, display lists, grids, and more.
```

### Getting started

> Usually, when you implement your SwiftUI app, you begin with **App:**

Reviewer 3: **issue:** If you include _usually_, you invite questions as to other ways to do this. This is your guide and you are steering the conversation. Omit this. Also, why use `implement` when you're talking about starting an app? Use `start`.
```suggestion
To start your SwiftUI app, write **App:**
```

Reviewer 3: I get that. Maybe a change in language that doesn't invite follow up questions would help. Something like:

```markdown
Many SwiftUI developers write `App` to start their application.
```

**question:** Is `App` a property of something? It's own class / object? That extra word would help.

```swift
@main
struct MyApp: App {
    var body: some Scene {
        WindowGroup {
            HomePage()
        }
    }
}
```

> The body is usually created in a struct that conforms to the **View** protocol as follows:

Reviewer 3: **issue:** See previous.
```suggestion
Write the app body within a `struct` that conforms to the **View** protocol as follows:
```

Author: Same comment as above, I don't want to tell people how to write SwiftUI code, we're simply comparing common ways of doing things in SwiftUI to how we recommend it in Flutter

Reviewer 3: Gotcha. Maybe:

```markdown
Another common SwiftUI development practice places the app body with a `struct`. This conforms...
```

Author: Added!

```swift
struct HomePage: View {
  var body: some View {
    Text("Hello, World!")
  }
}
```

> In Flutter, to begin you pass in an instance of your app to the `runApp` function. 

Reviewer 3: **suggestion:** Be more direct.
```suggestion
To start your Flutter app, pass in an instance of your app to the `runApp` function. 
```

{{site.alert.end}}

### Bundling images in apps
In SwiftUI, to add an image to your application, 
'add the files to `Assets.xcassets` 
and then display them using the `Image` view. 

In Flutter, you add images similar to how you add custom fonts. 
Begin by adding an `images` folder to the root directory. 
Next, you’ll need to add this asset to the `pubspec.yaml` file as follows:

```
flutter:
  assets:
    - images/Blueberries.jpg
```

After defining your image, you can display it on the screen using 
the `Image` widget's `.asset()` constructor. 
This constructor instantiates the given image using the provided path, 
reads the image from the assets that are bundled with your app, 
and displays the image on the screen. See the [`Image`] for a complete example. 

### Bundling videos in apps
To play a local video file bundled within your app in SwiftUI, 
you need to import the `AVKit` framework and 
create an instance of the `VideoPlayer` view.

In Flutter, to do the same thing, you'll need to add the [video_player][] 
plugin to your project. 
This plugin allows you to create a video player that works on 
Android, iOS and on the web from the same codebase. 

> You'll need to add the plugin to your app- and similar to above, add the video file to your project, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to add the plugin to your app and, similar to above,
add the video file to your project, 
```

and add the asset to your `pubspec.yaml` file. Once these steps are complete, 
you can use the `VideoPlayerController` 

> class to load and play your video file. See [video_player example][] for a complete walk through. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class to load and play your video file. See the [video_player example][]
for a complete walkthrough. 
```

dynamically passed into the widget, when navigating to the new route, 
and extracted using `ModalRoute.of()`:

<nav class="navbar bg-primary">
 <ul class="navbar-nav navbar-code ml-auto">
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.dartpad}}/?id=5ae0624689958c4775b064d39d108d9e">Test in DartPad</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.repo.this}}/{{sample_path}}/lib/navigation.dart">View on Github</a>
  </li>
</ul>
</nav>

<?code-excerpt "lib/navigation.dart (DetailsPage)"?>
```dart
class DetailsPage extends StatelessWidget {
  const DetailsPage({Key? key}) : super(key: key);

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    // read the person instance from the arguments
    final Person person = ModalRoute.of(
      context,
    )?.settings.arguments as Person;
    // extract the age
    final age = '${person.age} years old';
    return Scaffold(
      // display name and age
      body: Column(children: [Text(person.name), Text(age)]),
    );
  }
}
```

For more advanced navigation and routing requirements, 
you should use a routing package such as [go_router][]. 

> You can find more details at Navigation in Flutter.  

Reviewer: Add a link.

Author: This was added in a previous commit: https://github.com/flutter/website/pull/7736/commits/05e1e46a2aac387685280d74c4dd9ffc61660595

### Manually pop back

In SwiftUI, for situations where your view needs 
to perform a manual pop-back to the previous screen, 
you use the `dismiss` environment value as follows:

```swift
Button("Pop back") {
        dismiss()
      }
```

In Flutter, to achieve the same effect, you use the `pop()` 
function of the `Navigator` class as follows:

<nav class="navbar bg-primary">
 <ul class="navbar-nav navbar-code ml-auto">
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.dartpad}}/?id=0cf352feaeaea2eb107f784d879e480d">Test in DartPad</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.repo.this}}/{{sample_path}}/lib/popback.dart">View on Github</a>
  </li>
</ul>
</nav>

<?code-excerpt "lib/popback.dart (PopBackExample)"?>
```dart
TextButton(
  onPressed: () {
    // this is the main code that allows the
    // view to pop back to its presenter
    Navigator.of(context).pop();
  },
  child: const Text('Pop back'),
),
```

> ### Navigating to another app

Reviewer: Isn't this actually navigating to a website page? (Not another app)

In SwiftUI, to open a URL to another application, you use the `openURL` environment 

> variable, as follows:

Reviewer: Ditto. It's opening a website page, not an app.

Author: Changed the text

    'Open website',
  ),
),
```

## Themes, styles and media
Flutter applications are easy to style; you can easily switch 
between light and dark themes, 
change the style of your text and UI components, 
and more. This section covers aspects of styling your Flutter apps 
and compares how you might do the same in SwiftUI.

### Using dark mode
In SwiftUI, if you want to use dark mode for your views, 
you can call the `preferredColorScheme()` function that is implemented 
on a `View`.
    
In Flutter, you control light and dark mode at the app-level 
using the `theme` property of either your `App` class as follows:

<nav class="navbar bg-primary">
 <ul class="navbar-nav navbar-code ml-auto">
 <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.dartpad}}/?id=c446775c3224787e51fb18b054a08a1c">Test in DartPad</a>
  </li>
  <li class="nav-item">
    <a class="btn btn-navbar-code" href="{{site.repo.this}}/{{sample_path}}/lib/cupertino_themes.dart">View on Github</a>
  </li>
</ul>
</nav>

<?code-excerpt "lib/cupertino_themes.dart (Theme)"?>
```dart
    CupertinoApp(
  theme: CupertinoThemeData(
    brightness: Brightness.dark,
  ),
  home: HomePage(),
);
```

> ### Styling text

Reviewer: Material 3 introduced a LOT of new styling options, including a theming tool. Does any of this doc address that?

I'm concerned that this might already be out of date.

Author: @esouthren do happen to know if the CupertinoThemeData API will still use brightness?

Author: Thanks!

```

After defining your image, you can display it on the screen using 
the `Image` widget's `.asset()` constructor. 
This constructor instantiates the given image using the provided path, 
reads the image from the assets that are bundled with your app, 
and displays the image on the screen. See the [`Image`] for a complete example. 

### Bundling videos in apps
To play a local video file bundled within your app in SwiftUI, 
you need to import the `AVKit` framework and 
create an instance of the `VideoPlayer` view.

In Flutter, to do the same thing, you'll need to add the [video_player][] 
plugin to your project. 
This plugin allows you to create a video player that works on 
Android, iOS and on the web from the same codebase. 
You'll need to add the plugin to your app- and similar to above, add the video file to your project, 
and add the asset to your `pubspec.yaml` file. Once these steps are complete, 
you can use the `VideoPlayerController` 
class to load and play your video file. See [video_player example][] for a complete walk through. 

</div>
<div class="tab-pane" id="uikit" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="uikit-tab" markdown="1">

## UIKit Overview

> 

Reviewer: Add some text here

Author: Added

}

class _SampleAppPageState extends State<SampleAppPage> {
  // Default placeholder text
  String textToShow = 'I Like Flutter';

  void _updateText() {
    setState(() {
      // Update the text
      textToShow = 'Flutter is Awesome!';
    });
  }

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      appBar: AppBar(title: const Text('Sample App')),
      body: Center(child: Text(textToShow)),
      floatingActionButton: FloatingActionButton(
        onPressed: _updateText,
        tooltip: 'Update Text',
        child: const Icon(Icons.update),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

> ### Widget Layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Widget layout
```

  List<Offset?> _points = <Offset?>[];
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return GestureDetector(
      onPanUpdate: (details) {
        setState(() {
          RenderBox? referenceBox = context.findRenderObject() as RenderBox;
          Offset localPosition =
              referenceBox.globalToLocal(details.globalPosition);
          _points = List.from(_points)..add(localPosition);
        });
      },
      onPanEnd: (details) => _points.add(null),
      child:
      CustomPaint(
        painter: SignaturePainter(_points),
        size: Size.infinite,
      ),
    );
  }
}

class SignaturePainter extends CustomPainter {
  SignaturePainter(this.points);

  final List<Offset?> points;

  @override
  void paint(Canvas canvas, Size size) {
    final Paint paint = Paint()
      ..color = Colors.black
      ..strokeCap = StrokeCap.round
      ..strokeWidth = 5.0;
    for (int i = 0; i < points.length - 1; i++) {
      if (points[i] != null && points[i + 1] != null) {
        canvas.drawLine(points[i]!, points[i + 1]!, paint);
      }
    }
  }

  @override
  bool shouldRepaint(SignaturePainter oldDelegate) =>
      oldDelegate.points != points;
}
```

> ### Widget opacity

Reviewer: Be careful of advising people to use the Opacity widget, especially in the case of an animation. No bueno. https://docs.flutter.dev/perf/best-practices#pitfalls

Author: This was an existing part of the document, I just changed where it is in the doc

In UIKit, everything has `.opacity` or `.alpha`.
In Flutter, most of the time you need to
wrap a widget in an `Opacity` widget to accomplish this.

### Custom Widgets

In UIKit, you typically subclass `UIView`, or use a pre-existing view,
to override and implement methods that achieve the desired behavior.
In Flutter, build a custom widget by [composing][] smaller widgets
(instead of extending them).

For example, how do you build a `CustomButton`
that takes a label in the constructor?
Create a CustomButton that composes a `ElevatedButton` with a label,
rather than by extending `ElevatedButton`:

<?code-excerpt "lib/custom.dart (CustomButton)"?>
```dart
class CustomButton extends StatelessWidget {
  const CustomButton(this.label, {super.key});

  final String label;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return ElevatedButton(
      onPressed: () {},
      child: Text(label),
    );
  }
}
```

Then use `CustomButton`,
just as you'd use any other Flutter widget:

<?code-excerpt "lib/custom.dart (UseCustomButton)"?>
```dart
@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return const Center(
    child: CustomButton('Hello'),
  );
}
```

> ## Navigation

Reviewer: Please add at least one brief line of text between a level 2 and a level 3 header. (Between any headers, to be honest.)

and a `Navigator` is a [widget][]
that manages routes. A route roughly maps to a
`UIViewController`. The navigator works in a similar way to the iOS
`UINavigationController`, in that it can `push()` and `pop()`
routes depending on whether you want to navigate to, or back from, a view.

To navigate between pages, you have a couple options:

* Specify a `Map` of route names.
* Directly navigate to a route.

The following example builds a `Map.`

<?code-excerpt "lib/intent.dart (Map)"?>
```dart
void main() {
  runApp(
    CupertinoApp(
      home: const MyAppHome(), // becomes the route named '/'
      routes: <String, WidgetBuilder>{
        '/a': (context) => const MyPage(title: 'page A'),
        '/b': (context) => const MyPage(title: 'page B'),
        '/c': (context) => const MyPage(title: 'page C'),
      },
    ),
  );
}
```

Navigate to a route by `push`ing its name to the `Navigator`.

<?code-excerpt "lib/intent.dart (Push)"?>
```dart
Navigator.of(context).pushNamed('/b');
```

The `Navigator` class handles routing in Flutter and is used to get
a result back from a route that you have pushed on the stack.
This is done by `await`ing on the `Future` returned by `push()`.

> For example, to start a ‘location’ route that lets the user select their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to start a `location` route that lets the user select their
```

location, you might do the following:

<?code-excerpt "lib/intent.dart (PushAwait)"?>
```dart
Object? coordinates = await Navigator.of(context).pushNamed('/location');
```

> And then, inside your ‘location’ route, once the user has selected their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then, inside your `location` route, once the user has selected their
```
Maybe you can do a global search, looking for the backwards single quotes?

see the [internationalization guide][], which has sample code
with and without the `intl` package.

### Managing dependencies

> In iOS, you add dependencies with Cocoapods by adding to your `Podfile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In iOS, you add dependencies with CocoaPods by adding to your `Podfile`.
```
Maybe you can also do a global search for "Cocoapods" (should be CocoaPods) and "Github" (should be GitHub)?

Author: Okay sure

}
```

> ### Understanding what was clicked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Detecting what was clicked
```
???

}
```

> ## Themes, styles and media

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Themes, styles, and media
```
Oxford comma for the win!

  const SampleAppPage({super.key});

  @override
  State<SampleAppPage> createState() => _SampleAppPageState();
}

class _SampleAppPageState extends State<SampleAppPage> {
  String? _errorText;

  bool isEmail(String em) {
    String emailRegexp =
        r'^(([^<>()[\]\\.,;:\s@\"]+(\.[^<>()[\]\\.,;:\s@\"]+)*)|'
        r'(\".+\"))@((\[[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\.[0-9]{1,3}\])|'
        r'(([a-zA-Z\-0-9]+\.)+[a-zA-Z]{2,}))$';

    RegExp regExp = RegExp(emailRegexp);

    return regExp.hasMatch(em);
  }

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      appBar: AppBar(
        title: const Text('Sample App'),
      ),
      body: Center(
        child: TextField(
          onSubmitted: (text) {
            setState(() {
              if (!isEmail(text)) {
                _errorText = 'Error: This is not an email';
              } else {
                _errorText = null;
              }
            });
          },
          decoration: InputDecoration(
            hintText: 'This is a hint',
            errorText: _errorText,
          ),
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

## Threading & asynchronicity

> 

Reviewer: Add even a brief sentence, please.

Author: Adding

### Writing asynchronous code

Dart has a single-threaded execution model,
with support for `Isolate`s

> (a way to run Dart codes on another thread),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(a way to run Dart code on another thread),
```

an event loop, and asynchronous programming.
Unless you spawn an `Isolate`,
your Dart code runs in the main UI thread and is
driven by an event loop. Flutter’s event loop is
equivalent to the iOS main loop&mdash;that is,
the `Looper` that is attached to the main thread.

Dart's single-threaded model doesn't mean you are
required to run everything as a blocking operation
that causes the UI to freeze. Instead,
use the asynchronous facilities that the Dart language provides,
such as `async`/`await`, to perform asynchronous work.

For example, you can run network code without causing the
UI to hang by using `async`/`await` and letting Dart do
the heavy lifting:

<?code-excerpt "lib/async.dart (loadData)"?>
```dart
Future<void> loadData() async {
  final Uri dataURL = Uri.parse('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts');

>   final http.Response response = await http.get(dataURL);

Reviewer: As a best practice, shouldn't there be some try-catch code in here?

If, on the other hand, you need to do computationally intensive
work that keeps the CPU busy, you want to move it to an
`Isolate` to avoid blocking the event loop.

For I/O-bound work, declare the function as an `async` function,
and `await` on long-running tasks inside the function:

<?code-excerpt "lib/async.dart (loadData)"?>
```dart
Future<void> loadData() async {
  final Uri dataURL = Uri.parse('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts');
  final http.Response response = await http.get(dataURL);
  setState(() {
    data = jsonDecode(response.body);
  });
}
```

This is how you typically do network or database calls,
which are both I/O operations.

However, there are times when you might be processing
a large amount of data and your UI hangs.
In Flutter, use `Isolate`s to take advantage of
multiple CPU cores to do long-running or
computationally intensive tasks.

Isolates are separate execution threads that do not share
any memory with the main execution memory heap.
This means you can’t access variables from the main thread,
or update your UI by calling `setState()`.
Isolates are true to their name, and cannot share memory

> (in the form of static fields, for example).

Reviewer: I like this sentence!

      appBar: AppBar(
        title: const Text('Sample App'),
      ),
      body: getBody(),
    );
  }
}
```

### Making network requests

Making a network call in Flutter is easy when you
use the popular [`http` package][]. This abstracts
away a lot of the networking that you might normally
implement yourself, making it simple to make network calls.

To use the `http` package, add it to your dependencies in `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  http: ^0.13.4
```

To make a network call,
call `await` on the `async` function `http.get()`:

<?code-excerpt "lib/progress.dart (loadData)"?>
```dart

> Future<void> loadData() async {

Reviewer: Again, it seems to me that you should model best practice by including a try catch statement.
